Welcome. Welcome to an
introduction to machine learning.
I'm Blaine Sundrud.
I'm a Senior Instructional
Designer and a Technical
Trainer at Amazon
Web Services, AWS.
I am thrilled to
welcome you to one of
the first sessions of
today's AI Innovate event.
Over the next hour,
I'm going to help you lay
the framework that you're
going to need to start
developing machine learning
solutions in your own work.
I'll define some key terms.
We're going to talk about
the different types of
machine learning
algorithms that'll help
you solve business problems that
you're going to face
out in the real world.
Then we're going to walk through
the machine-learning pipeline.
Let's start this 60 minute
journey off with a story.
This is a use case of a
machine learning in action,
one that took place
right here at Amazon.
Let me head over
to the light board
to illustrate the story for you.
Hold on a second. All right.
Several years ago,
Amazon, @amazon.com,
needed to improve the way
that it routed customer
service calls.
So it looked to machine
learning for help.
Now the original routing system
works something like this,
customer calls in,
greeted by the menu,
"Press 1 for return.
Press 2 for Kindle,
3," but whatever.
You get the idea.
The customer has to
make a selection,
and then they're
sent to an agent.
Agent. The agent is
there to go ahead,
and they're trained
in the right skills
to help them with the customer.
Well the problem is,
hey, you might have guessed,
the kind of things that we
do and sell here at Amazon,
there's a lot of stuff.
So the list of things
that customer could be
calling from is
practically endless.
So if we didn't get
the right option for the
customer to call in,
then the customer is sent to
a generalist as opposed
to a specialist.
The generalist has to
figure out what they want.
So they send him to
another person who
hopefully is the right one.
Maybe it is. Maybe it's got
the right skills. Maybe not.
It's got to sent to
another one, and so on.
You keep going through
all these pieces until
eventually you get to
the real happy person
that's supposed to
help out the customer.
Now for some businesses,
that might not be the
end of the world.
For Amazon, when
you're dealing with
hundreds of millions of
customer calls every year,
this path, that's inefficient.
It cost a lot of
money, wasted time,
and worst of all
it's not a good way
to get our customers
the help they needed.
Well you can probably guess
the rest of the story.
Amazon built a system.
They used machine learning to
improve the whole routing system.
So the idea was to
get rid of all of
this extra stuff and go
straight to the agent
that could help them.
This made the customers happier.
It made the call center
agents more productive.
Basically, everyone lives
happily ever after.
So I'm going to show you
how Amazon actually
did it, how we did it.
We're going to spend
the next 60 minutes
walking through this
machine learning pipeline,
and explain how we
deployed this smarter,
more intelligent, customer
service routing system,
this ML system, so that you can
develop your own ML
solutions moving forward.
So first, what does
the machine learning
pipeline look like anyway?
Well it starts with collecting
and integrating your data.
Then you prepare the data,
visualize it for analysis,
then you select the
features you want
to use and engineer some as well.
Then you can train your model,
evaluate it and deploy it.
So at this point now,
it's time to turn
our business problems into
machine learning problems.
So let's start with
the business problem.
So our business
problem in this case
is how are we going
to route our customer
calls successfully?
The machine learning problem,
we'll get to that in a second.
In fact, before you can do
any of the things we're
going to talk about,
we have to decide even
if a machine-learning,
ML, is the right solution to
deploy in the first place.
All right. So at this point,
is machine learning an
appropriate solution?
So let's break it down.
Machine learning is a subset
of artificial intelligence or AI.
Machine learning uses data,
and this data is going to
be used to train the model,
and the model is then
used for predictions.
Can I spell predictions?
Close enough. Good enough.
The predictions then, we
can make those from
huge datasets,
because the strength lies in
its ability to extract
hidden patterns,
structures from this data.
Now common use case
for machine learning.
Well let's call it a
credit card transactions.
So card transactions.
So there's card transactions.
In this case, we
find the appropriate
data because what we're
looking for is to
determine fraud.
The appropriate data is mind.
We're identifying patterns among
all of the card transactions,
specifically looking
for patterns that
indicate a fraudulent
transaction.
With these patterns,
you can train
the ML model to predict
future transactions as,
yes, fraudulent, or
no, not fraudulent.
So with that in mind,
let's return to the question.
Is machine learning an
appropriate solution
for the business problem?
Well in this case, it was
for the Amazon call center.
They had millions of
historical phone
calls as the dataset,
but there was no single
indicator that they could use to
get a customer directly to
an agent in just one step.
It's more complicated than that.
So we needed to identify patterns
within the whole range of
customer data that could help us
route customer to the right
agents in a single-step.
Tons of data, tons of data,
all of which needed
to be analyzed for
patterns that Amazon could
use to make accurate predictions.
Knock-knock, who's there?
Machine learning. This is exactly
the problem that machine
learning was built for.
So in this case,
the machine learning problem
that it's actually solving
for is to predict
the agent skills.
Now there are different types
of machine learning
problems out there.
So hypothetically
speaking, let's say
that with our call
center problem,
our original goal was just to
predict whether a
customer was simply
calling in about their Kindle or
not calling in about kindle.
This type of problem is
considered a binary
classification.
So it's binary. Let
me put it over here.
So binary, Kindle or not Kindle.
Simple as that. There's
only two outcomes.
It's a classification problem
because we're predicting
a category instead of a
real number like a price.
Although it's simple,
this basic classification task
supports a wide
variety of elegant,
scalable and actually very
powerful business solutions.
For example, is this credit
card fraudulent or not?
The other type of
problem you might
run into is multi-class.
A multi-class solution
in this case,
we're still predicting
a category,
but it's more than
just two outcomes.
It's not Kindle or not Kindle.
We might be looking at a
number of different choices.
We're going to walk you through,
today's example is actually
a multi-class solution.
There's many ways of classifying
the type of skill that
would be needed to solve this
particular customer call.
Maybe they're looking
for a Kindle,
but maybe it's to
return a product,
maybe it's to answer a
question about Alexa,
or whatever it might be.
There could be any number,
hundreds of different
things it could be.
In these two examples,
binary or multi-class solution,
these are classification
problems.
But there's also regression.
In a regression problem,
I'm no longer mapping to a
series of defined categories.
Now, I'm looking for a continuous
values such as numbers,
integers, 1, 2, 3, whatever.
An example of machine
learning regression problem,
predicting the price of
your company's stock.
Let's get back to our
call center problem.
We have determined our
machine learning problem.
This is what we're looking
for. You've identified it,
it's a multiclass problem.
So we have a whole different
set of outputs it could be.
At this stage, now it's
time for us to talk to
our domain experts and
gather more information.
Time to challenge
your assumptions.
During this phase, some of
the questions Amazon asked were,
what exactly did these customer
service agents skills represent?
How much overlap were
there between the skills?
Are they similar enough
where I might be able
to possibly combine them?
What happens when a customer's
routed to an agent
with the wrong skill?
Did that agent stand a chance of
possibly answering
the question anyway?
The more questions you ask
during this discovery stage,
the more inputs you'll
get and the more input that
the domain experts give you,
the different people, then the
better your model is going to be.
All right. Let's go
back to the desk,
put a few more things
on this. All right.
Now, it's time to get started
with your ML pipeline.
Now, it's all about the data and
the training that data to
enable the models to
make your predictions.
Data is everywhere and
because it is everywhere,
it can be collected from
multiple sources like Internet,
Databases, other
types of Storage.
Chances are very good.
Some of the data your
team collects however,
it's going to be noisy.
Your data is possibly
incomplete even irrelevant.
So wherever it comes from it will
need to be compiled,
get integrated.
Most importantly, you
have to clean the data.
First, you need to collect and
integrate the data that's
relevant to your problem.
No matter what type of
data you're collecting,
you're going to need to
make sure that you've
got the proper tools and
the knowledge to work with
all different datatypes.
But let's go back to our
call center use case.
The data we needed
came from answering
questions like what were the
customer's recent orders?
Does the customer own a Kindle?
Are they a prime member?
The historical customer
data that answers
questions like these
are called Features.
They could features as your
inputs to the problem.
The machine learning model's job
during training is
to learn which of
these features are actually
important to make the right
prediction for the future.
If the value you're
looking for is know,
like in a supervised learning,
then that prediction
is called a label.
But if the value isn't known,
like in unsupervised learning,
then it's called a target.
We'll talk more
about supervised and
unsupervised learning in a bit.
Don't worry about
that. For right now,
just know that in our
call center example,
our label was the skill
an agent needed to resolve
the customer call.
All right. Together, the
label and the features,
this makes up a
single data point.
This is called an observation.
Stack up a bunch of observations,
that's your dataset.
Good data will contain
a signal about the phenomenon
you're trying to model.
For instance, let's say
there's merchant trying to
forecast demand for products.
They might track number of
sales they've had, good start.
But what if they've forgotten to
log when certain products
we're out of stock?
If you're trying to
forecast demand,
it's important to know when
you were out of stock,
and therefore, critical
to have data that
represents that as
one of your features.
Here is a general rule of thumb.
You need at least
10 times the number
of data points as features.
So if you've got five features,
you should have 50 data points
minimum in your training data.
So data preparation,
as you can see,
sometimes that very first dataset
is not going to be enough
for a good prediction.
As developers, it's
important to understand
what data you're missing
so that you can access it.
This is where the data
preparation phase comes in.
First step, take a
small random sample
of your data and you really
need to dig into it.
Now, you probably need between
20 to 50 observations.
Although again, that depends
how many features you have.
Your job in the data
prep phase is to
manually and critically
explore the data.
You've got to look at it close.
Ask yourself questions like this,
what features are there?
That Step 1. Does it
match your expectations?
Is there enough information
to make accurate predictions?
If you just looked at it,
what are you going to see?
Here is a good rule of thumb.
If a human, you could look at
a given data point and
guess the correct label,
then an ML algorithm should
be successful there too.
Now, you might also want to
critically think
about your labels.
Ask yourself, are there
any labels that you
want to exclude from
the business model
for business reasons?
Are there any labels that
aren't entirely accurate?
In the call center use case,
we asked some domain
experts key questions that
helped inform this part
of Amazon's Analysis.
For instance, we would ask,
how much overlap was
there between skills?
Were any skill similar
enough to be combined?
If we did our homework and
properly answered those
types of questions,
we may have been able
to simplify our model
by excluding a few labels.
For instance, instead
of having labels that
represent multiple Kindle skills,
it might have made sense
to just combine those into
one overarching
Kindle skill label.
That way, every customer that
had a problem with a Kindle can
be routed to an agent trained
in all kindle issues,
rather than tinker toy,
little tiny things here or there.
It can be hard to understand
your data without
seeing the data.
That's why you need
to do more than
just a manual analysis,
you need a programmatic analysis.
This is what you get when
you visualize the data.
I love visualization.
Visualization is great.
It's a technique that helps you
understand the relationships
within your dataset.
This leads to better
features, better models.
When you can see the data
in a chart or plotted out,
you can help unveil
previously unseen patterns.
It reveals corrupt data or
outliers that you don't want,
properties that could be very
significant in your analysis.
The Amazon example.
A programmatic analysis
of the label might have
shown 50 percent of the calls
were related to returns,
40 percent were for
prime membership,
30 percent related to
kindle, and so on.
Basic stats like these can
be powerful methods to
obtain quick feature and
labeled summaries
to understand them.
Two other common visualization
techniques we're going to cover,
histograms and scatter plots.
Let's take a look at that.
All right. Let's talk
about histograms.
By the way, thanks Tom for
pre-drawing one for me.
Histograms are effective
visualizations
for spotting outliers in data.
For example, let's say
you're visualizing
the distribution
of hours per week
your company's employees
actually work.
So you're trying to
make a prediction about
salaries and you're going to base
that on the number of hours
your full-time employees
actually show up to work.
So with this histogram,
you can see that the majority
of your employees are working
between 35 and 55 hours a week.
But you can also see there's
a lower outlier over here.
Couple of your employees are
working 15-20 hours a week.
Well, maybe you have some
part-time employees that for
whatever reason got mixed
into your dataset of your
full-time employees.
If you want it base
your prediction on
full-time employees only,
then it's important
to identify and
remove these part-time
employees from your dataset.
Well, in this case,
you could just delete
the outlier data or
you could cap it.,
so you don't see any data
for any employee who
worked less than 35
hours this week.
This solution would help
you ensure you're only
looking at that
full-time employee set.
But there's other solutions.
For instance, in the multi-class
classification problem,
you're going to want
to figure out how
to actually combine this
outlier data with
other data classes
rather than just ignoring
it or deleting it.
For example, in the
call center example,
we had multiple Kindle skills.
Well, ultimately, Amazon
just decided to combine
specific Kindle skills into
a single general Kindle skills
for its model training.
If it's a regression problem,
you can deal with outliers
or even missing data
by just assigning a new
value using imputation.
Now, imputation is going
to make a best guess,
so to speak, as to what the
value actually should be.
For instance, you might have
a set of data and you can
take a mean, 45.
This 45 is going to
be what I would use in
the case of missing data.
So in the salary
prediction example,
let's say our data looks
something like this.
So Employee 1 is going
to actually work,
let's say 35 hours for a
week and another employee,
E2, is going to work 44
hours for that week.
Then you have Employee 3.
No, there is no data
for Employee 3.
Rather than just eliminating
it or worse putting a
zero because Employee 3 did not
work zero hours that'll
mess up your data,
in this case, you can simply
take your mean which is 45,
I embed drawing on this board.
So we are going to just
put that in there and say,
for Employee 3, it's going to
take the mean which is 45 hours.
Great. In place the missing data.
It's not a zero, I'm not
ignoring Employee 3,
I'm still going to have wait for
it even though I don't know
what it is, it's
going to be valuable.
All right. Good. Now,
along with histograms,
another visualization
tool, scatter plots.
So in this case,
the idea of scatter
plots is to visualize
the relationship between the
features and the labels,
where what you've
got are a whole lot
of different unique points.
It's important to
understand if there's
a strong correlation between
features and labels.
In this instance,
a scatter plot might actually
help us see the correlation
between the number of hours
worked and their income levels.
So in this case,
yeah, it's looking like
a strong correlation.
Now, on the flip side,
we might see a weak correlation
if we were to use age and
those elements being out
here in that case,
nothing of value.
When thinking about
data preparation,
keep in mind that if you
don't address noisy data,
it's just going to hurt
your model's performance.
These types of
visualization techniques
and approaches are critical.
Your model will suffer because of
noisy data points like
outliers or missing data.
This results in less
accurate predictions.
So we've been talking
about in order to get
accurate predictions,
you have to get clean data.
But there's more to that.
You need an algorithm
that makes sense for
your business problem.
Choosing the right
algorithm for the job
is another big step in this
part of the ML pipeline.
It can be a challenge for
any machine learning practitioner
especially given that there are
several 100 algorithms out there.
Now, to help out,
let's talk about these
four different categories
of machine learning algorithms.
We've got supervised,
unsupervised,
reinforcement, and deep learning.
Let's start here.
Supervised learning.
It's a popular type of
machine learning because
it's widely applicable,
has several successful
applications out in the world.
The focus of supervised
algorithms is on learning
patterns by seeing the
relationship between
variables and known outcomes.
It's called supervised learning
because there needs
to be a supervisor,
a trainer, that can actually
show the engine the right
answers, so to speak.
In machine learning by the way,
a trainer can be any
sort of complex systems,
could be machine, could be human,
or other natural processes.
Imagine you're training a
Machine Learning model that's
capable of predicting
future earthquakes.
In this case, the teacher or
the ultimate source of
truth is nature herself.
Like any student,
a supervised algorithm
needs to learn by example.
Essentially, it
needs a teacher who
uses training data to help it
determine the patterns
and relationships
between the inputs
and the outputs.
This picture here for
example, it's a car.
So you get a nice little car.
I embed the cars.
It's got two wheels,
it's got a headlight,
you got to have
a window font there,
that's a car, great.
This one over here,
well, that's a truck.
Okay. Fine. After the
training is finished,
a successful learning algorithm
can make the
decisions on its own.
You no longer need a
teacher to actually
label things as car or truck.
In the end, the output
knows that's a car,
that's a truck, it
can do it by itself.
The call center use case
is an example of
supervised learning.
We trained our model on a bunch
of historical customer data
that included the correct labels
or the customer agent skills.
That enabled the model to make
its own prediction based
on other similar
data moving forward.
So for example, that I know that
this particular call needs
someone with a Kindle skill.
We'll talk more about
what it means for
an algorithm to determine
relationship later,
we talk about parameters and
hyperparameters for now.
Let's go ahead and focus
right now though on
the types of algorithms
rather than those elements.
Supervised algorithms.
They need good training datasets.
In properly labeled observations,
hang on, I need to
emphasize something.
It's really important to
know that this type of
machine learning
is only successful
if the system we are
trying to model it after
is already functioning
and easy to observe.
If we want to train
a model that label
cars or trucks or
buses or whatever,
then we need to make sure that
the training data is labeled.
If not, then you
got to go through
a large number of photos and
actually label them manually.
Now, if such a human process
was not already in place,
then obtaining that
ideal training dataset,
it could be problematic
and might ultimately be
a reason to not pursue a
supervised learning algorithm.
So let's talk about
what happens when there's
no teacher in the room.
Okay, I'm gone. Wait a minute,
I still have to be here.
Sorry, I thought you'd quit.
No. Hello, here we go.
Sometimes all we've
got is just the data.
No provided labels.
There's nobody here telling
you what something is.
Can something useful
still be learned?
Well, yeah, that's
unsupervised learning.
With unsupervised algorithms,
we don't know all the variables.
We don't know the patterns.
So the machine itself
simply looks at
the data and tries to create
labels all on its own.
A common type of
unsupervised learning,
it's called clustering.
This algorithm,
it groups data points
into different clusters
based on similar features
in order to better
understand the attributes of
a specific group or cluster.
For instance, let's say you sell
office supplies different
companies all over the world.
Well, in analyzing customer
purchasing habits,
an unsupervised model
might actually be
able to identify two
different groups.
Each groups, there's no need for
a label but what it
finds out is that maybe
this one group is just
purchasing paper and
pencils or whatever,
and this turns out to
be smaller companies.
Whereas this other cluster
of groups is buying
conference tables and chairs
and big furniture items,
it turns out this happens to
be your larger companies.
You may not have had
this label initially
but just their purchasing
habits started
dividing them up into buckets
automatically or specifically
the engine did that.
Clustering in this situation
could help you
realize that you need
to come up with different
marketing strategy
for different types of companies.
Consider fraud detection.
A supervised algorithm
could predict
a particular threat that's
already been classified.
But the most dangerous attacks
are the ones you
don't see coming.
The ones you don't know about.
That is the ones that haven't
already been labeled.
To detect an
unclassified category
of fraud in the early phases,
like a sudden large order from an
unknown user or a suspicious
shipping address,
unsupervised algorithms
group malicious actors
into a cluster and then
analyze their connections
to other accounts without
knowing the actual labels
of the attack originally.
All right. Another algorithm,
it's been gaining popularity
a lot recently,
Reinforcement Learning.
Let me put this up
on the board here.
So if our example here
we're going to start
with the agent, then an action.
This is the environment.
Finally, we come over here
to the state, the reward.
This becomes the loop.
Now unlike these
first two algorithms
that both actually have an
endpoint and end state,
this one, reinforcement,
continually
improves by mining feedback
from previous iterations.
In reinforcement learning,
this agent continually
learns through trial and error
as it interacts with
the environment.
The reinforcement learning
is broadly useful when
the reward of a
desired outcome is
known but the path
to achieve it isn't.
That path requires a lot
of trial and error to
actually discover.
Well, let's think
of Pac-Man here.
So you've got Pac-Man.
We get Pac-Man out there.
Pac-Man, fine. In this case,
maybe it's supply chain,
but Pac-Man's more fun.
So we're going to go
ahead and the action
might be is it going to go left?
Is it going to go
right, don't know?
So depending on whether
he goes left or right,
the reward or the state is
going to constantly change.
The model is learning,
and it's going to be graded
as opposed to tagged or labeled.
So if I go left,
maybe no that's bad.
So I'm going to have
a score of minus two.
But if I go right,
okay that's good,
that's going to be a
plus two whatever it is.
Think about playing
a new board game
but you don't know the rules,
and you might not know the
intricacies of the game,
but you just know you got to get
to the other side of the board.
So as you move through
the game and you learn
the values of certain actions,
you get more familiar
with the space,
left, bad, right, good.
"No, it's fire-breathing dragon.
No, negative two whatever."
Fine. These values you
learn can influence
your future behavior.
Well, I'm sure as heck
ain't going to do
that move again that's a bad one.
I'm not going to
keep moving towards
the dragon or the ghost.
So as a result,
the performance
starts to improve.
It gets better based on your
past experience. All right.
That's reinforcement, fine.
Now, let's talk about the
deep learning algorithms.
Yeah, here's a buzzword
for you, right?
Deep Learning. It's a reinvention
of artificial neural networks.
Now if you're thinking about
the biological neural network,
so here's a neuron and that's
connects and it's fine.
I can't draw neuron,
pretend it's a neuron.
You've got these in the brain.
If you think like that,
you're actually on the right
track because just like
a biological neural network
where this connects to
another nerve, another nerve,
and so on, each neuron is
activated when the sum of the
input signals into one neuron
exceeds a particular threshold.
The thing is, a single neuron,
it's not sufficient for
any practical
classification needs.
Instead, we combine them into
a fully connected set of
layers to produce
artificial neural networks.
We call these
Multilayer Perceptrons.
So you might start
with some inputs,
and each of these can
be considered a neuron
but then you've
got a whole lot of
different hidden layers and each
one of these of their
own piece and so on.
Eventually, you might
get to an output,
but it's a collection of these.
How deep is deep learning
in the real-world?
Some networks can have
thousands of layers
of these perceptrons.
As you can imagine,
the computational
power required to
train such networks,
it's not cheap.
One important breakthrough in
deep learning was
the invention of
Convolutional Neural
Networks or CNNs for short.
These are especially useful
for image processing.
Now the main idea of a CNN is,
in this case for image
processing is I take
nearby pixels in the image into
account instead of treating them
as entirely separate inputs.
A special operation
called a convolution
is applied to entire
subsections of the image.
If several convolutional layers
are stacked one after another,
each convolutional layer learns
to recognize patterns that
increase in complexity as it
moves through the layers.
Now, if we take the output
of a neuron and feed it
as an input to itself or to
neurons of previous layers.
So instead of everything
going in one direction,
we actually feed backwards
or maybe into itself.
This is what we call
Recurrent Neural Networks.
It's as if the neuron remembers
the output from a
previous iteration,
thus creating some memory.
A more complex network
is called LSTM,
stands for long
short-term memory.
It's commonly used for speech
recognition or translation.
It's conversation
for another time.
Feature Selection.
This our next important
step, feature selection,
where you get to select which
features you want to
use with your model.
What you want to have is
a minimal correlation
among your features,
but you want to have
the maximum correlation
between the features
and the desired output.
So you want to select
the features that
correlate to your desired output.
Now part of selecting the
best features includes
recognizing when you've
got to engineer a feature.
Feature engineering is the
process of manipulating
your original data into
new and potentially a lot
more useful features.
Feature engineering is arguably
the most critical and
time-consuming step
of the ML Pipeline.
It answers questions like,
do the features I'm using
makes sense for what
I want to predict?
Or how can I
systematically take what I've
learned about my features
during the visualization
process and
encode that information
into new features?
For instance, in looking at
the raw data of our
call center use case,
you might have noticed already,
50 percent of the customers were
calling in about
tracking a package.
However, after visualization,
25 percent of those customers
calling in about
tracking packages,
they're actually located
in the exact same city.
Now that's a large number.
It's potentially
significant pattern.
In this situation,
you could engineer
a feature for
customer's tracking packages
in specific cities.
This information might
lead to same patterns,
you otherwise wouldn't
have seen before.
We've had some features that
answered questions like,
what was the customer's
most recent order?
What was the time of the
customer's most recent order?
Does the customer own a kindle?
When we feed these features
into the model
training algorithm,
it can only learn from
exactly what we show it.
Here, for instance, we're
showing the model
that this purchase
was made at 1:00 PM
on Tuesday the 13th.
Well, unless we really
want to predict something
extremely specific or we're
doing a time series analysis,
that's not really a
meaningful feature
we want to feed into our model.
It'd be much more
meaningful if we could
transform that timestamp into
a feature that represents
maybe how long ago
that order took place.
Knowing, for instance, that
your last purchase was
months ago would
probably help the model
realize that your
last purchase is
probably not the reason
you're calling today.
Now obviously, we can engine
those feature just by
taking the diff between
order date-time and
today's date-time.
That's a much more
helpful feature.
Here's another example we could
use about image classification.
Let's say you wanted
to train a model to
identify cars in a picture.
Fine. You can do this by feeding
raw images of cars and training
it to identify the car.
But it won't be that
helpful given that
these images are very complex
combination of pixels.
The raw data, that is
the raw images you're
going to feed in,
it doesn't include
any higher-level
features such as edges,
lines, circles, the patterns
that it can recognize.
So during the feature
engineering stage,
you can pre-process the data.
This will classify it,
possibly get to more
granular features,
that way can feed
those features back
into the model, get
better accuracy.
We'll talk more
about accuracy and
precision in a little
bit, but that's critical.
Finally ready for training.
First step you have to take
when you're officially training
your data is you
have to split it.
Now, splitting the
data allows you
to ensure that you've got
production data that's
similar to your training
data that your model will as
a result be more
generalizable or
applicable outside
of the training environment.
Let's head over the board
so we can investigate
this a little
more closely. Here we go.
Once again, thanks Tom for
doing the work for me.
Typically, you want to split
your data into three sections:
you've got your training data,
your dev data, and
your test data.
Now, training data is going to
include both the
features and the labels,
this feeds into the
algorithm you've
selected to help
produce your model.
The model is then used to make
predictions over a
developments dataset,
which is where you'll likely
notice things that
you'll want to tweak,
and tune, and change.
Then when you're ready,
then you can actually
run the test dataset,
which only includes
features since
you want the labels to be
what's predicted
through the model.
The performance you get
here with a test dataset
is then what you can
reasonably expect to
see in production.
The amount of data you will
have determines how
ultimately you split it up.
But regardless,
you'll want to train
your model on as much data as
possible knowing that
you're going to need to
reserve some of it for
the dev phase and
some for testing.
So if you have a lot of data,
then you can probably
split it up into let's
say 70 percent here for training,
and 15 percent for dev,
and another 15 percent for test.
If you have little data, well,
maybe it's 80 percent 10 and 10,
you'll end up working
it out the way you can.
Another important
thing to note though
as you start splitting
up your data,
make sure you randomize it.
This is critical.
You've got to randomize it during
your split to help
your model avoid bias.
This is especially true
with structured data,
if your data coming
in a specific order.
So let's say for example
that your data is
listed sequentially.
Well, your model will
start to become used to
that structure and
it will start to
adapt to this pattern
as it learns.
Then eventually when you run
your model against test data,
this pattern of sequential data
will be applied and
that'll bias your model.
So effectively, to make sure
your model isn't biased,
you need to feed it
randomized data.
Now, popular randomization is
simply shuffling your data.
Now, if you aren't familiar
with that, no worries,
there's a lot of great tools out
there that will help
you shuffle your data.
For example, Scikit-learn.
Now, randomizing and
splitting your training data
is a critical step in
the training process.
Common mistake
people make is that
they don't hold out testing data,
and what they end
up doing is simply
testing on part of
the data they trained
with, the training data.
Well, this doesn't
generalize your model,
it actually will lead to
either over fitting or
underfitting. Let's
talk about that.
Overfitting it's where your model
learns the particulars
of a dataset too well.
It's essentially memorizing
your training data
as opposed to actually
learning the relationship
between the features
and the labels
so the model can use
what it learns in
those relationships to build
patterns to apply to
new data in the future.
Remember our stock
data from earlier.
Well, the model learns
the pattern here
as the stock price
goes up the end of the month
and then drops the
beginning of the month.
For example here,
30th 425, 4, 1, 375.
It might miss other
important data
that's likely
impacting the price,
such as April is tax
season in this example.
It's clear here that mixing
up the rows is going to be
necessary to give the model
an opportunity to learn
other things from the data.
It's pretty clear here that
we need to look at more,
a lot more dates.
In addition to simply
randomizing the data,
it's also very
important to collect
as much relevant data
as possible because
underfitting on the other
hand can occur if you don't
have enough features to
model the data properly.
This can again prevent
the model from
properly generalizing
the data because it
doesn't have enough
information to
predict a right answer,
to predict correct.
To really understand overfitting
and underfitting and
how to avoid it,
we need to talk about two
things; bias and variance.
Think about bias as the gap
between your predicted value and
the actual value where variance
describes how dispersed
your predicted values are.
Now, that's a lot of jargon.
So let's actually take a moment
and look at it
visually over here.
So a bull's eye that's
a nice analogy to use here
because generally speaking,
the center of the bull's eye
is where you aim your darts,
the center of the bull's eye in
this analogy is the
label or your target,
it predicts the
value of your model.
Each dot is then going to
be a result that you're
model produced
during the training.
So let me demonstrate.
So we start with a low
bias, low variance model.
Everything's clustered tight and
it's right there
in the bull's eye.
I'm getting everything
I predict in one area,
there's not a lot of spread.
Now, next, if we go over to
a low variance but a high bias,
so in this case,
I'm not getting
everything that I want,
but at least I'm getting
a predictable series
of responses.
It's a tight cluster,
I'm just not on the bull's eye.
Now, on the other hand,
a high variance low bias.
Well, in this case,
it means I'm on
target as far as the
center of the spread goes,
but the spread is wide,
it's all over the place.
Then high variance, high bias.
Yeah. This is the bad.
So in this case,
I'm all over the place
and I'm not on target.
Ideal? What's the ideal case?
Yeah. You guessed it. You want
the low bias and low variance.
Realistically though?
Yeah. There's a balancing
act that's happening here.
Bias and variance both
contribute to errors,
but what's you're
ultimately going for here
is to minimize your
prediction error,
not bias or variance
specifically.
That's the bias
variance trade-off.
Bringing underfitting
and overfitting
back into the picture.
Underfitting is where you've got
low variance and high bias.
These models are
overly simple and they
can't really see the underlying
patterns in the data.
Overfitting. That's the
high-variance and low bias.
These models are overly complex,
and while they can detect
patterns in the training data,
they're not accurate outside
of the training data.
So let's consider our
use case as an example.
Say hypothetically that we
trained our model based
solely on data from customers
who already had a kindle,
a prime account, and there was
a package tracking question
at some point during
their membership.
So our model could detect
a pattern that showed that
say 70 percent of
prime members call in
about an Amazon device.
But should the model
used this pattern and
try to make any
future predictions?
Well, you'd probably say
no and if you did,
you'd be correct.
In this example, the model
didn't even consider
Alexa related data,
or what about deep lens,
or holiday data, or
any number of other
types of data points.
Therefore, the model's going to
be underfitted because it's
hardly sufficient information to
predict at a more granular level,
while prime members are actually
calling in about
an Amazon device.
Now, this is an
oversimplified example.
But the point remains,
in testing and production,
our model won't pay attention
to these other
missing categories,
it will skew the results towards
only the data that the model
was actually trained on.
One technique that
can be used to combat
underfitting and overfitting
is called hyperparameter tuning.
In machine learning,
there are parameters,
and there are hyperparameters.
Let's go back to the desk
and pull up the slides.
Let's talk about
parameters briefly.
Now, a parameter is internal
of the model and it's
something the model can learn
or estimate purely
off of the data.
An example of a parameter
could be the weight of
an artificial neural network
or the coefficients
in linear regression.
The model has to have
parameters to make predictions,
and most often, these
aren't set by humans.
Hyperparameters on
the other hand,
they're external of the model
and can't be estimated
from the data.
Hyperparameters set by
humans, and typically,
you can't really know
the best value of
the hyperparameter,
but you can trial and error
and use that to get there.
Yeah. Think about hyperparameter
as the knobs, the lever,
you're going to use those to tune
the machine learning algorithm,
and that'll improve
its performance.
The right hyperparameters
have to be
chosen for the right
type of problem.
Here's an example of
a hyperparameter.
It could be the learning rate
for training a neural network.
Let's take a look at different
types of hyperparameters.
Walking through this part
of the process is one of
the most effective ways
of improving your
model's performance.
So make sure you take the time to
conduct hyperparameter
tuning thoroughly.
Speaking of which, now it is
time to train your model.
The process of training
an ML model involves
providing your algorithm with
training data to learn from.
As mentioned earlier,
for supervised learning,
the training data must contain
both the features and
the correct prediction,
which again we call labels.
The learning algorithm
finds patterns in
the training data that maps
the features to the label.
So when you show the
trained model new inputs,
it'll return accurately
predicted labels.
Then you can use
the ML model to get
predictions on new data
for which you don't
know the label.
For example, let's say you
want to train an ML model to
predict if an email is spam
or not spam. All right.
You provide your algorithm
with training data,
It contains emails,
and the known label,
those labeled tells it whether
it's spam or not spam,
the algorithm then
trains the model
using that data resulting
in a model that
tries to predict whether
a new email which it
hasn't seen before
is spam or not spam.
All right. We did
the same process with
our call center example.
We passed along features such
as does the customer
own a kindle,
yes or no, along with
the appropriate label,
yes it owned it, no
they don't own it.
In this case, kindle skill
we put into our algorithm,
which then learn
the relationships
between these inputs
and outputs and
spit out a model that
could extrapolate
those patterns into
similar data sets.
As explained earlier, after
the initial phase of
training your model is done,
you'll need to evaluate how
accurate that model is by
using the development
data that you set
aside and run it
through the model,
and this is going to tell you how
well you generalize the models.
The test data may be fed
the model for the most
accurate predictions.
In fact let's circle
back this topic
of accuracy and precision.
While you're evaluating you
want to fit the data that
generalizes more towards
unseen problems.
Remember from our earlier
discussion about over-fitting,
you should not fit the
training data to obtain
the maximum accuracy which
is kind of weird, kind
of intuitive, right?
I mean, you want a model
that predicts accurately
on previously unseen
data, that's true.
But remember if you train your
model to be too accurate,
it will be over-fit to that
specific training data.
For classification problems like
the call center use case we've
been dealing with all day,
we're trying to predict if
a new observation will be
classified as this
customer agent skill
or that customer agent skill.
One of the most effective
ways to evaluate
your model's accuracy, precision,
and ability to recall
involves looking
at something called
a confusion matrix.
Now, the confusion matrix
analyzes the model and
shows how many of
the data points were
predicted correctly
and incorrectly.
So let's take a look here,
in the bottom right,
this is the class one box.
Meaning this represents
all of the true positives,
you predicted a one
and you got a one.
So great, for our
call center case
this could mean of all the things
you thought you'd predict,
and your model did predict,
for example needing
to route customer
to a specific agent with
strong elected skills,
your model did this 1,800 times.
In the top left box,
this is the class
zero class zero box,
this is your true negative.
For instance, with our use case
you might predict the model
will not route calls to
the fresh department,
and the model in fact did not
route any calls to Amazon Fresh.
The top right box,
now this is your class
one class zero box
where you predicted
in this case a one,
but you ended up getting a zero,
and finally last is
this bottom box where
you predict a zero but
end up getting a one.
To summarize, accuracy is
the degree of deviation from
the truth or the total number of
right predictions divided by
the total number of predictions.
Precision is the ability to
reproduce similar results,
and it's defined by all of
your true positive
numbers divided
by true positive
and false positive.
All right. At this point
after you've trained
your model and you're
satisfied with the accuracy
based on some of the
techniques we've talked about,
it's best practice
to evaluate how it's
doing by running it against
a few different algorithms.
Now, you should consider
running it through
a couple different algorithms
within the chosen
algorithm category.
So if you're working say
with a supervised algorithm
like our classification
algorithm for the call center,
you should try the model against
a different
classification algorithm,
for example decision
tree algorithm
or the K nearest
neighbors algorithm.
But this will give you
a better idea of how
to get the best fit and the
best results for your model.
Okay. Deployments,
monitoring, here we are.
You've prepared your data,
you've cleaned your data,
you've visualized it.
You've selected your features,
you've split your
data test your model,
you've tuned it several times,
lets be honest, and after
you've done all that,
and you're satisfied with
the model's predictions
on unseen data,
it's time to deploy
your model into
production so it can begin
making your predictions.
One of the primary ML
tools for building,
training and deploying
models Amazon SageMaker.
Amazon SageMaker
is fully managed,
it covers the entire
end-to-end pipeline
that we've just discussed.
The build module,
SageMaker provides
a hosted environment for
you to work with your data,
you can experiment
with your algorithms,
you can visualize the output.
Then the train module
actually takes care
of the model training and
tuning at high scale.
Then it has the deploy module,
designed to provide you
a managed environment
for you to host,
test models for inference,
secure low latency,
the tools are there.
Now, this additional tool is and
SageMaker that are going
to help you label data,
manager your compute costs,
take care of forecasting,
and much more that has battle of
one of our Machine Learning
tech leaders here at Amazon,
they're going to
discuss in a different
session later on today,
you don't want to miss
that one that one's
going to be important.
All right. Getting back to
deploying and monitoring.
You'll want to
remember to monitor
your production data and
retrain your model
if it's necessary,
because a newly deployed model
needs to reflect current
production date,
you don't want to
get out of date.
Since data distributions
can drift over time,
deploying a model it's
not a onetime exercise,
it's a continuous process.
You're not going to
be out of a job.
It's a good practice,
you continually monitor
the production data,
and retrain if you find
that the production
data distribution
has deviated significantly from
the training data distribution,
no deviation, isn't a change.
Evaluating in a
production setting
is a little bit different.
Now you've got to have a
very concrete success metric
that you can use to
measure success.
In our call center use case,
our routing experiments
were predicated
on the assumption
that the ability
to more accurately predict
skills would reduce the
number of transfers.
Now, in production we
can actually put that
assumption to test.
Well, okay so that takes us to
the end of them ML pipeline.
If that felt like a little
bit of a whirlwind,
that's because it was.
It has like a tone that goes into
implementing an ML solution.
It's a process that
most often takes
several weeks or months,
don't be scared of it, we've
really just skim the surface.
But now hopefully, you've
enough of foundation
of the process.
We talked about the key
terms and processes,
key terms and concepts to use.
So the rest of today's events,
you'll be able to really dive
deeper into the content,
services, especially tools
that most interest you.
So with that I'm Blaine Sundrud,
and I hope you got something
good out of today,
and have an excellent
rest of the day,
and I'm going go and
throw it back to you
all. Have a great day.